# Analysis of Politician Tweets

Ultimately I want to understand what motivates US politicians' positions and behavior and 
determine if these can be predicted by their social media accounts or other public information.
Being able to determine or predict their policy positions and behavior could help us make more
informed choices when voting, and understanding their personalities and motives could help us to be more influential in our lobbying. 

This simple project has a much narrower scope. We wished to test the hypothesis that the
similarity of a politician's tweets to that of political candidants is predictive of the candidate that the politician supports.

We created a classifier to distinguish between Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton tweets. When we we used the classifier on tweets of US Senators we found a strong correlation between their level of support for the candidate and the number of tweets that were classified as the candidate they support. We also did kMeans clustering to both ask the same question, do they cluster based on the candidate they support as well as to analyze clustering patterns to determine new features that tweets may be predictive of. We found that Senators tend to cluster by state, even when no state identifying information is part of the feature set.  

I haven't had the chance yet to clean up or organize the code. Some code is currently missing, but I'll add it back at a later date. Feel free to contact me if interested in the project. I have also excluded most of the data for the sake of space. All of which is obtained from twitter and IBM Watson's Personality Insights. 


id_table.csv:
	First Name
	Last Name
	Party (D, R, I) third party is counted as I
	State
	twitter handle
	twitter id
	Office
	the csv file containing their tweets

personality_table.csv: Contains identifying information followed by 52 personality traits, the
personality traits are given float values, which indicate their percentile compared to the 
individuals in IBM's survey data
	Twitter handle
	First Name
	Last Name
	Big5:Openness
	Adventurousness
	Artistic interests
	Emotionality
	Imagination
	Intellect
	Authority-challenging
	Big5:Conscientiousness
	Achievement striving
	Cautiousness
	Dutifulness
	Orderliness
	Self-discipline
	Self-efficacy
	Big5:Extraversion
	Activity level
	Assertiveness
	Cheerfulness
	Excitement-seeking
	Outgoing
	Gregariousness
	Big5:Agreeableness
	Altruism
	Cooperation
	Modesty
	Uncompromising
	Sympathy
	Trust
	Big5:Emotional range
	Fiery
	Prone to worry
	Melancholy
	Immoderation
	Self-consciousness
	Susceptible to stress
	Needs:Challenge
	Needs:Closeness
	Needs:Curiosity
	Needs:Excitement
	Needs:Harmony
	Needs:Ideal
	Needs:Liberty
	Needs:Love
	Needs:Practicality
	Needs:Self-expression
	Needs:Stability
	Needs:Structure
	Value:Conservation
	Value:Openness to change
	Value:Hedonism
	Value:Self-enhancement
	Value:Self-transcendence
	

WordClusters folder:
contains CSV results for clustering after truncated SVD 

PersonalityClusters folder:
contains CSV results from clustering after personality analysis

models folder:
some of the analysis is slow, so we saved the objects and data needed to cluster by word.
These include the CountVectorizer, TfidfTransformer, The tfidfTransformed data,
and the Truncated SVD transformed data, so that it does not need to be rerun each 
time.

.ods files (libre office calc files, are excell-like files of cluster analysis)



tweetgrabber.py downloads tweets from the politicians on id_table.csv


tweetcombiner.py contains serveral accessory functions for working with tweets

personalityCluster.py does the personality clustering

bagOfWordsCluster.py does the word usage clustering

.ipynb files do some analysis of the clusters




